README.md, before:

# Readium Mobile Test App (Swift/iOS)

A test app for the Swift implementation of Readium 2. Stable builds are [published on TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/lYEMEfBr).

Follow the project on [ZenHub](https://app.zenhub.com/workspace/o/readium/r2-testapp-swift/boards).

[![BSD-3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD--3-brightgreen.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause)

All migration steps necessary in reading apps to upgrade to major versions of the Readium toolkit will be documented in the [Migration Guide](https://readium.org/mobile/swift/migration-guide).

## Features

- [x] EPUB 2.x and 3.x support
- [x] Readium LCP support
- [x] CBZ support
- [x] Custom styles
- [x] Night & sepia modes
- [x] Pagination and scrolling
- [x] Table of contents
- [x] OPDS 1.x and 2.0 support
- [x] FXL support
- [ ] RTL support

## Demo

![](https://media.giphy.com/media/hAttjic8neYp2/giphy.gif) ![](https://media.giphy.com/media/13ivNbjbbUT41a/giphy.gif) ![](https://media.giphy.com/media/l378cRkMNuKx2AOAw/giphy.gif)

## Dependencies

- [Shared Models](https://github.com/readium/r2-shared-swift) (Model, shared for both streamer and navigator)
- [Streamer](https://github.com/readium/r2-streamer-swift) (The parser/server)
- [Navigator](https://github.com/readium/r2-navigator-swift) (The bare ViewControllers for displaying parsed resources)
- [Readium CSS](https://github.com/readium/readium-css) (Handles styles, layout and user settings)

## Install and run the testapp

1) If you're building the `develop` branch, change the Cartfile to use `develop` for all Readium-related dependencies :

```
github "readium/r2-shared-swift" "develop"
github "readium/r2-streamer-swift" "develop"
github "readium/r2-navigator-swift" "develop"
github "readium/readium-opds-swift" "develop"
```

2) Fetch the dependencies using [Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage) :

`$> carthage update --platform ios --use-xcframeworks`

3) Open the Xcode project :

`$> open r2-testapp-swift.xcodeproj`

4) Build the project target named `r2-testapp-swift (carthage)`.

**More build and dependency information can be found in [r2-workspace-swift](https://github.com/readium/r2-workspace-swift)**

## [@Contributors] Efficient workflow for testing changes on Readium 2

The release target `r2-testapp-swift` uses the libraries and frameworks built by **Carthage**, while the debug `r2-testapp-swift-DEBUG` can be modified to use local versions of  **r2-shared-swift**, **r2-streamer-swift** and **r2-navigator-swift** depending of which you want to modify. Doing so will allow you to see the changes directly in the testapp, without the need for a Carthage cycle.

If you want to contribute to the development, I recommend creating a Workspace which contain the 4 projects (shared, streamer, navigator and testapp), and to use local Products as dependencies of the others to shorten development time.
e.g: in your local clone of **r2-navigator-swift**, create a debug target which uses the Product of your local clone of **r2-shared-swift**. That way, when you modify and compile **r2-shared-swift**, the modifications are directly taken in your next **r2-navigator-swift** build.

Commit message:

Sets the volume back to 0 or 1 when moving app to background
Just less surprising, especially if you expect to be at 0 volume

README.md, after:

# Modifications

This mods the Readium Mobile Test App to augment it with the ability to use the volume buttons to change pages. Modifying the behavior of the volume button is no bueno for apps released on the App Store, so this behavior is unfortunately missing in all iOS readers.

To accomplish this, I make the volume slider invisible while inside the app. Then I listen to changes in the invisible slider, reacting to volume up by going to the previous page and vice versa for volume down.

Because in iOS, the volume slider does not appear at 0 volume or 1.0 volume, I "jiggle" the volume by a small amount if the volume is at either extreme when switching to the app. So if you are muted, you will be at 0.01 volume while you're in the app.

The "Readium Mobile Test App" is a surprisingly fully functional eBook reader.

---

# Readium Mobile Test App (Swift/iOS)

A test app for the Swift implementation of Readium 2. Stable builds are [published on TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/lYEMEfBr).

Follow the project on [ZenHub](https://app.zenhub.com/workspace/o/readium/r2-testapp-swift/boards).

[![BSD-3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD--3-brightgreen.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause)

All migration steps necessary in reading apps to upgrade to major versions of the Readium toolkit will be documented in the [Migration Guide](https://readium.org/mobile/swift/migration-guide).

## Features

- [x] EPUB 2.x and 3.x support
- [x] Readium LCP support
- [x] CBZ support
- [x] Custom styles
- [x] Night & sepia modes
- [x] Pagination and scrolling
- [x] Table of contents
- [x] OPDS 1.x and 2.0 support
- [x] FXL support
- [ ] RTL support

## Demo

![](https://media.giphy.com/media/hAttjic8neYp2/giphy.gif) ![](https://media.giphy.com/media/13ivNbjbbUT41a/giphy.gif) ![](https://media.giphy.com/media/l378cRkMNuKx2AOAw/giphy.gif)

## Dependencies

- [Shared Models](https://github.com/readium/r2-shared-swift) (Model, shared for both streamer and navigator)
- [Streamer](https://github.com/readium/r2-streamer-swift) (The parser/server)
- [Navigator](https://github.com/readium/r2-navigator-swift) (The bare ViewControllers for displaying parsed resources)
- [Readium CSS](https://github.com/readium/readium-css) (Handles styles, layout and user settings)

## Install and run the testapp

1) If you're building the `develop` branch, change the Cartfile to use `develop` for all Readium-related dependencies :

```
github "readium/r2-shared-swift" "develop"
github "readium/r2-streamer-swift" "develop"
github "readium/r2-navigator-swift" "develop"
github "readium/readium-opds-swift" "develop"
```

2) Fetch the dependencies using [Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage) :

`$> carthage update --platform ios --use-xcframeworks`

3) Open the Xcode project :

`$> open r2-testapp-swift.xcodeproj`

4) Build the project target named `r2-testapp-swift (carthage)`.

**More build and dependency information can be found in [r2-workspace-swift](https://github.com/readium/r2-workspace-swift)**

## [@Contributors] Efficient workflow for testing changes on Readium 2

The release target `r2-testapp-swift` uses the libraries and frameworks built by **Carthage**, while the debug `r2-testapp-swift-DEBUG` can be modified to use local versions of  **r2-shared-swift**, **r2-streamer-swift** and **r2-navigator-swift** depending of which you want to modify. Doing so will allow you to see the changes directly in the testapp, without the need for a Carthage cycle.

If you want to contribute to the development, I recommend creating a Workspace which contain the 4 projects (shared, streamer, navigator and testapp), and to use local Products as dependencies of the others to shorten development time.
e.g: in your local clone of **r2-navigator-swift**, create a debug target which uses the Product of your local clone of **r2-shared-swift**. That way, when you modify and compile **r2-shared-swift**, the modifications are directly taken in your next **r2-navigator-swift** build.
